1- what is diffrence between xapi and api ??
The Experience API (also known as xAPI, or by its original working name of Tin Can API) is a data standard for reporting learning activities. 
It establishes a common technical framework for how different software systems can report on learning actions in the same way, such as “Jane Doe attempted Sales Training 101” or “Bob Smith completed New Hire Safety.”

API stands for Application Programming Interface. It is a generic software term for the connection between different technical systems. 
Two software systems can share data with each other using APIs. The xAPI refers specifically to how learning activities should be reported between different technical systems.
By itself, the xAPI is simply a data standard. Implementing the xAPI also requires a database to store a large number of individual learner interactions.
The creators of the xAPI standard recommend using a Learning Record Store (LRS), a database that has been specially designed to store records generated by xAPI statements. The LRS can be inside an LMS, or used stand-alone (more common as of today).

2-
REST
REST is a set of architectural constraints, not a protocol or a standard.
API developers can implement REST in a variety of ways.
When a client request is made via a RESTful API, it transfers a representation of the state of the resource to the requester or endpoint.
This information, or representation, is delivered in one of several formats via HTTP: JSON (Javascript Object Notation), HTML, XLT, Python, PHP, or plain text. 
JSON is the most generally popular file format to use because, despite its name, it’s language-agnostic, as well as readable by both humans and machines.
Something else to keep in mind: Headers and parameters are also important in the HTTP methods of a RESTful API HTTP request, as they contain important identifier information as to the request's metadata, authorization, uniform resource identifier (URI), caching, cookies, and more. 
There are request headers and response headers, each with their own HTTP connection information and status codes.
In order for an API to be considered RESTful, it has to conform to these criteria:
A client-server architecture made up of clients, servers, and resources, with requests managed through HTTP.
Stateless client-server communication, meaning no client information is stored between get requests and each request is separate and unconnected.
Cacheable data that streamlines client-server interactions.
A uniform interface between components so that information is transferred in a standard form. This requires that:
resources requested are identifiable and separate from the representations sent to the client.
resources can be manipulated by the client via the representation they receive because the representation contains enough information to do so.
self-descriptive messages returned to the client have enough information to describe how the client should process it.
hypertext/hypermedia is available, meaning that after accessing a resource the client should be able to use hyperlinks to find all other currently available actions they can take.


3-SoapUI is a great open-source web service testing tool that stands for Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP). Its functionality covers web services inspection, invoking, development, simulation and mocking, functional testing, load, and compliance testing. SoapUI Core feature which includes web services are inspection, invoking, development, simulation, and mocking, functional, compliance, and security testing.  

Advantages of SoapUI:

SoapUI is a tool that is used for both functional and non -functional testing and is not limited to the services it provides. It supports functional, performance testing.
It is a user-friendly interface with better drag and drops, point and pick options.
It is data-driven API automation testing.
It has the ability to use pre-written scripts used for different projects.
Asynchronous API calls.

4-API stands for Application Programming Interface. It is a generic software term for the connection between different technical systems. Two software systems can share data with each other using APIs. The xAPI refers specifically to how learning activities should be reported between different technical systems
 someone or something that bears, supports, or carries She was the bearer of bad news. 2 : a person who has a check or an order for payment. bearer. noun. bear·​er | \ ˈbar-ər \
 Transient objects are always different; a new instance is provided to every controller and every service.

Scoped objects are the same within a request, but different across different requests.

Singleton objects are the same for every object and every request.
5-To demonstrate the difference between these lifetime and registration options, consider a simple interface that represents one or more tasks as an operation with a unique identifier, OperationId. Depending on how we configure the lifetime for this service, the container will provide either the same or different instances of the service to the requesting class. To make it clear which lifetime is being requested, we will create one type per lifetime option:
